# Predicting the future from 2021

Second year of doing [these][]! Let's make some predictions for 1, 5,
10, and 20 years out!

[these]: /20200112-predicting_the_future_from_2020/


### By 2022

 * Vaccine effective in controlling all strains of COVID-19.
 * No additional pandemic on the scale of COVID-19.
 * Donald Trump indicted.
 * S&P 500 closes above 4,000.


### By 2026

 * At least one of [FAANG][] split up by government intervention.
 * Joe Biden is dead.
 * Democratic presidential ticket of Harris and Buttigieg loses.
   [[1](#1)]
 * Intelligent extraterrestrials clearly real and communicating with
   humans. [[2](#2)]
 * S&P 500 closes above 6,000.
 <!-- * My grandparents are dead. -->

[FAANG]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook,_Apple,_Amazon,_Netflix_and_Google


### By 2031

 * S&P 500 closes above 8,000.


### By 2041

 * S&P 500 closes above 12,000.


[<a name="1" href="#1">1</a>] What odds would you give me?

[<a name="2" href="#2">2</a>] I've included one low-probability, never
occurred before, possibly impossible prediction, at the recommendation
of my sister. There were [Haim Eshed][]'s claims, after all, and those
[videos][]. And wouldn't it be fun? I'll give aliens an optimistic 2%
for the next five years and reevaluate then as needed.

[Haim Eshed]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haim_Eshed
[videos]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentagon_UFO_videos


---

### Reviewing predictions from 2020

All my one-year [predictions][] were correct, at least if you interpret my
"S&P under 3,000" as meaning any time during the year, not just at the
end of the year.

[predictions]: /20200112-predicting_the_future_from_2020/

I'm feeling more optimistic about the stock market now than I was last
year. Maybe that's a sign that it'll do more poorly now?

I had Justice Ginsberg dead by 2025, so my timing was sadly not
maximally precise.

Most of my predictions from last year were very conservative.
Understanding the present is a good method for predicting the near
future, but it isn't very interesting.

I have less to say about the farther future. It's harder to predict,
and I already [predicted][] some things in the range of 10-20 years
out last year. No changing them now! I'm also just thinking more about
personal plans/goals; this stuff is just for fun.

[predicted]: /20200112-predicting_the_future_from_2020/


### Probabilistic predictions?

[Some people][] assign probabilities to all their predictions, and I
think this isn't very interesting, because it's easy to nod along with
probabilities. Predictions are interesting when they're surprising,
and certainty can increase surprise.

[Some people]: https://slatestarcodex.com/2020/04/29/predictions-for-2020/

It would be possible to compare probabilities between people and see
where they're most different. I could imagine making a little web
survey/app for this, which might be fun and good to do in a class
learning about [cross-entropy][], for example.

[cross-entropy]: /20201221-ulysses_compass/

A possible taxonomy of predictions by probability:

 * Very likely based on the present. (More hurricanes.)
 * Coin flip. (Old person dies in some period.)
 * Slightly unlikely. (Underdog wins something.)
 * Very rare but known possible. (Pandemic.)
 * Possibly impossible. (Aliens visit Earth for wine and cheese party.)

It's the very likely ones that make the most sense to think about most
of the time, I think, both because they don't require hedging and
because there's less uncertainty _in the estimate of the probability
itself_.


### COVID-19 and the right questions

COVID-19 is the big thing that wasn't predicted for 2020: very rare
but known possible. I'm not going to predict any other things in this
category this year either, because that's easier and usually right.

When I wrote my 2020 predictions, there was already some news about
COVID-19. Is there something like that right now that I'm missing? I
googled "early signs" but didn't find anything likely to make me seem
perspicacious.

The things that turn out to be important are hard to predict because
you have to ask the right questions to even consider them. What aren't
we considering now that will turn out to be important?
